# Notes on this project

## 1. When looking at maps showing the energy consumption in the Netherlands, can you see any regional patterns in the data?

*Method* 
Plotting usage dots, corrected for the number of active connections, after removal of outliers, on a map for each energy type for all years to visually examine the usage per zipcode.
Interactive maps were created using the python package Folium. Interactive HTML files were created. Maps showing the entire country are larger than 100 MB and are not placed on github. They can be recreated using the exampe_map_interactive.py code file.
Static maps were created with the python packages cartopy and matplotlib.

*Expectations*
1. More gas consumption outside of the [Randstad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randstad), because the larger cities have relatively more appartment buildings and connected houses than the more rural parts of the country. It is assumed that detached houses, which have more wall surface area touching the outside air, will use more gas to keep the house warm than a appartment in an appartment building.
2. No clear differences between cities and rural areas in electricity consumption, since the usage is correct for the the number of active connections
3. Differences between neighbourhoods in cities, since it is expected that newer buildings have better insulation than older buildings. Additionally it is expected that buildings in city centers (shopping areas) will use more electricity than residential neighbourhoods 

*Results &amp; Observations*
- When outliers were not removed, no clear regional differences could be found for either gas or electricity consumption. This probably was due to the fact that zipcodes which had very high energy consumption, skewed the colour scale used to visualise the usage
- Even after the outliers were removed, it was difficult to see trends due to the amount of data. (which also makes plotting any kind of map slow)
- Not all cities had full data for all years
- Differences could be detected within cities, (e.g. AMSTERDAM_elec2018.html)
- Some cities have unexpected neighbourhoods away from the rest of the city (e.g. The Hague / Den Haag) 

## 2. Do similarities in demographics translate to similarities in energy consumption?

*Method*

Data on demographics was found for each year of energy data. Four datasets were found on the Postcode-4 level:
- Age distribution per postcode per year
- Immigration distribution per postcode per year
- Household composition per postcode per year
- Position in household per postcode per year

All energy datasets were grouped and summarised Both the averages and medians were calculated per postcode per year. 
Similarities between postcodes were examined for:
- all separate demographics and energy types
- all separate demographics and combined energy consumption

The 50 most similar postcodes were collected for each category for each year. These postcode pairs were compared with the other type of data to find common postcode pairs in the energy data and the demographics.

*Expectations*
1. People with a similar demographic background will live in similar neighbourhoods (e.g. similar levels of insulation) and will show similar energy consumption.

*Results*
1. No common postcode pairs were found between the energy data and the demographics in the 50 most similar postcodes for each category and year.

*Possible explanation*

Since the demographics were only available on the Postcode-4 level of detail, the energy data had to be grouped. The finer details of the data were lost in this grouping to the mean and/or median. People within one Postcode-4 area are much more diverse than people within a Postcode-6 area. This diversity could not be found in the demographics. The grouping of too diverse groups might mask the similar energy usage in similar households.

## Possible next steps
- Examine which postcodes have an excessively high energy consumption (gas and/or electricity) and try to discover why
- Where and when were solar panels installed?
- With additional data, can you find a relation between the winter weather and gas consumption?
- With additional data, can you find a relation between the energy generated by solar panels and the weather?
- With additional data, can you compare NL data to other countries?





  